# CommonTrack

CommonTrack was created to help students who are applying to colleges by providing lots of information about each college that is part of the common app in an easy to understand manner, such as ranking, size, type, deadlines, test policy, recommendations and more.

I decided to use a similar framework to the finance practice set, using python for the backend with the flask framework. This is because it was relatively simple to understand and I could use a similar login and register functionality. It was very useful that I could create a different route for each functionality, from creating an event on calendar to searching for a college in the list, as it helped keep the code organized and focused.

The program some of the same libraries from before, including the CS50 SQL library as it was much more convenient since the syntax was simpler and the werkzeug.security libary to store the passwords as hashes. I also used functools library to create a wrapper for executing code before the first request to ensure the user would be directed to the login page with the session being cleared. In this project, I used the google calendar API to enable the program to create a college deadlines calendar and read and write to it depending on the universities the user is interested in. This is because keeping college deadlines organized within a calendar is something that I would have liked to have myself, when applying to universities.

The website has five main content pages. The first being a home page where the purpose is explained, along with more explanations of what each ranking criteria meant and what the abbreviations used in the ranking section mean. The second is my college list page, where the user can add up to 20 colleges to track useful info about them as listed before and add these colleges deadlines to the user's calendar. The third is a page with a list of all colleges on common app and the user can search for any college to obtain some crucial info about the college. The fourth page is a list of all ranked colleges from QS Rankings which includes ranking info and the user can use the search functionality to see a breakdown of the scores for each college in many specific areas such as sustainability, reputatoin, research, and amount of international faculty. Finally, the fifth page is an about section where I talk about the uses of the website in more detail and my reason and motivation for creating it.
